---
title: Version control
---

# Theory Session 4: Version control
=================================

Version control
---------------

So, now we're comfortable with Markdown, which allows us to write documents
like we were writing code, we can use the tools first designed to allow
coders to collaborate on our documents.

This is transformative - these tools were developed to permit teams
of **thousands** of coders work together, including open source communities.

They allow **merging** of work of distributed teams, automatically
helping to resolve conflicts
where different authors attempt to make changes to the same part of a program.

We'll review a few concepts from version control tools, before working
practically with github.

Commits
-------

Each set of changes we make forms a commit. A commit has an author, and,
critically, a short comment describing the intent of the change.

By reviewing the commit log, we see a summary of changes.

Commits as a network
--------------------

Each commit has a *parent*: the change before, and a *child* the change after.

When two people make changes based on the *same* parent, it has two children.

When two sets of changes are **merged**, (resolving any potential conflicts),
they create a commit with **two parents**.

(Computer scientists call this network a *directed graph*).

Branches
--------

What if you're working on some changes, and you're not ready for them to be
part of the main project yet - you're not quite finished. You do your work
on a *named branch*.

Pull Requests
-------------

So, if your work is on a branch, how do you get it back into the "trunk"?
You file a "pull request", which allows the rest of the team to review your
changes, before **merging** your work.

Note this creates a much more careful trail of approval than the wiki,
where anyone can make changes at will.
